1. Installing the Application and All Dependencies
Clone the Repository:
git clone https://github.com/omodara-ux/INST377-Final-Project-
cd https://github.com/omodara-ux/INST377-Final-Project-
Install Node.js:
Check if you are using Node.js or not. You can get it from Node .js
Install Dependencies:
npm install
Set Up Environment Variables:
Make a .env file in the root directory.
Add the following variables:
Your Supabase Database URL and pass to Supabase here:
DATABASE_URL=<Your Supabase Database URL>
Your Open Food Facts API Key : API_KEY=<Your Open Food Facts API Key>
PORT=3306

2. Running Application on Server

Start the Development Server:
npm run dev
The server will run at http://localhost:3306.


Production Deployment:
It’s deployed on Vercel. From GitHub, push changes to the main branch, and Vercel will redeploy the most recent version, automatically.
3. How to Run Tests

Run Unit Tests: npm test
Run Integration Tests: Tests/integration is where we store our integration tests. Run them using: npm run test:integration

4. API Documentation
The API for your server application - all GET, POST, PATCH, etc endpoints, and what they each do


5. Known Bugs
Issue: Nutritional Info may return incomplete nutritional data as some ingredients may not be found in the external API.
Workaround: Show data only when available, otherwise show a fallback message.

Other Known Bugs:
Issues with CSS layout in the older versions of Safari.
Open Food Facts API slow response times for large datasets.

6. Future Development Roadmap
    Planned Features:
Saving custom smoothie recipes: add user authentication.
To add dietary filters (vegan, low carb, gluten free).
We add sorting options by NutriScore or Eco Score.


Performance Enhancements:
Caching frequently queried items on the server, for example, is a perfect use case for the API call optimization.
Smoothie data should be implemented lazy loading to improve UI performance.

UI Improvements:
Help with mobile responsiveness.
We can add animations for better transitions and better UX.

7. Documentation Location
This README.md file is located in the top level of the project.
Docs for some of specific sections like API usage and database schema can be found in docs/ folder.
